Usability tests are essential in any stage of your development or your design or even is in user investigation
or user interviews.
So once you have prototypes built for your product or you have a completed version of your product you
are ready to test it with your actual users.
That is actually the usability test.
We are going to see what are the pain points.
What are the frustrations that still are residing in our product and we are going to I did it and has
removed most of the things we have done so far are already aligned with the users and it's his needs
or hard needs.
So right now we are actually testing whether we have met those needs.
We are going to validate our assumptions that we have made a usable user friendly product or not.
So there are many things.
There are many terms.
There are many details in usability tests.
I am not going to go into too much depth but I am going to stick with just four types of tests that
are essential for improving the usability of any product.
And you can do them at home so don't worry that you need to you know go to some lab to do these usability
tests.
Now the first test you are going to do with your product with your app for your website is first impression
test.
The first impression test is actually also called five second test and it is very popular.
This is going to be your first test.
You need to see what your users first impressions and parts about your product what do they think about
it.
Do they trust it.
Do they want to buy it.
Do they want to use it.
What is your message.
Whether they are understanding your website's message or your apps message accurately or not.
So these kind of things we are going to you know search in these first impression tests so you are going
to show your users your website for the first five seconds and then hide it and ask them questions like
What is this website about what are you going to do things like that.
So you need to get the initial ideas of your users about your product or your website.
Now walk around or exploration test is actually you are going to let your users browse your app try
to see what are their impressions when they try to struggle with something when they try to browse different
products in my Franklin Web site for example when they tried to apply some filters when they tried to
do two different filters and different product details I want to see their impressions what are they
thinking about it.
What are their impressions.
So don't let you know explore them for like one hour.
Just give them five or 10 minutes to get familiar with the product or app and see their expression record
them.
If you can.
That is the best thing.
So these are really nice.
You might catch few problems during these exploration tests.
Now this is the most essential step or test in your usability test which is essential tasks test you
are going to plan for different tasks that are essential to your each user persona.
For example each user is going to create a new account.
Then we have log in.
Then we have checkout process.
Then we have filtering products.
Then we have removing products from your card and adding them back shopping cart checkout.
So we are going to test these five or six essential tasks with like three to five users to see what
we have achieved and we are going to compare our results with benchmarking them with other websites
with other popular solutions and other popular e-commerce stores.
Now in the end after you have conducted your usability tests in the end you are going to give your users
some questionnaire and surveys that.
How did you feel using this product.
What were your expectations and how well do you think you are going to read from 1 to 10 about this
product.
And we are actually asking them you can say qualitative data which is a usability technique qualitative
and quantitative quantitative as we are measuring different like clicks or times and things like that
and quantitative sorry qualitative is that we are actually checking the satisfaction and emotional response
of our users what is the product quality how satisfied our users are.
How are they feeling after using their our product.
So we are going to get the over all emotional satisfaction and user satisfaction.
Why are these questionnaires so I hope you have understood this lesson we are going to see these in
detail in the next lessons and I am also going to give you downloadable resources.
Don't forget to download them.
So let's move on to the next lesson.